---
title: "Writing and Authenticity in the Age of GenAI"
author: "Mohammed Azam"
date: 2026-05-05
draft: true
tags: ["writing", "authenticity", "AI"]
categories: ["Writing"]
description: "How human perceive the text written by human vs. machine? Do we value the text if we know it is done by a machine? Why or Why not?"
showToc: true
---

Ken Tabor posted on LinkedIn:
[If you think or feel a post was written (even in the slightest) with GenAI does its value drop dramatically to you now?](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/kentabor_if-you-think-or-feel-a-post-was-written-share-7454512378794348544-hjMZ?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop&rcm=ACoAAAA5WC4BaE0FWx7nCoPAY-gw3K3H-rIJW98)

This post generated a different set of responses, which can be put into three categories:
1. Indifference — I don't care as long as it adds value.
2. Authenticity — People still want authenticity.
3. Indiscernible — I may not be able to differentiate. After all, some argue that AI has already passed the Turing Test.

Ken's statement was very broad, and I found it hard to comment on it in a few sentences. It made me think about human creativity, the ability to write, not just technical documentation but human experiences.

There is a common notion floating around: if AI can do better than humans in a given field, then AI will replace humans. Can this applies to creative genres like poetry and fiction? What wisdom can a machine pass to humanity?

What surprises me is that AI doesn't understand concepts, yet it pretends to know and understand. AI conjures up sentences like a parrot, without any emotional underpinning or conception. The reader brings subjective feelings to the text and may experience joy or sadness when she reads text generated by a machine. 

If we come across two rugs, one woven by a human and another by a machine, and we don't know which is which, which rug will attract us? The polished, perfectly squared, tightly knitted one, or the one where human perfection and imperfection melded to create a unique piece with warm colors? 

I believe we will gravitate toward the rug created by a human, even without knowing it. In the same way, we will gravitate toward text written by humans rather than machines. I think this is because we are sentient beings, and our intuitions lead us to authenticity.

Is it possible for a machine to be taught concepts? Can a machine acquire sentient attributes? I don't know, but for now, this is still science fiction.